clang-highlight
===============

What is this?
-------------

clang-highlight reads C/C++ code and outputs semantic tokens that can be used
for syntax highlighting and interactive links. It is able to understand your
code perfectly since it uses clang to lex the input and generate an AST.

Usage
-----

clang-highlight operates like a clang tool (e.g. clang-tidy). It needs to be
told where your build directory with a compilation database
(`compile_commands.json`) can be found.

Use

    clang-highlight -p path/to/build --json-out=tokens.json path/to/code.cpp

to generate a JSON file for further processing of tokens, or

    clang-highlight -p path/to/build --html-out=out.html path/to/code.cpp

to directly generate highlighted & linked HTML using
[m.css](https://github.com/mosra/m.css) styling.

Example
-------

```c++
#include <iostream>

void myFunction()
{
  std::cout << "Hello World!\n";
}
```

gives the following JSON:

```json

```

Why not ...
-----------

 * Pygments/doxygen/...: These general syntax highlighting solutions can only
   perform very basic lexing and no semantic understanding. Thus, linking to
   types or even a correct function overload is impossible.
 * [synth](https://github.com/Oberon00/synth): While close in approach, synth
   uses libclang instead of the direct Clang C++ API. This comes with several
   limitations, the foremost one that libclang does not report template
   instantiations, making semantic annotations of templated code nearly
   impossible.
 * [clangd](https://clangd.llvm.org/): While providing a semantic token
   interface, clangd actually lacks understanding of template instantiations.
   Furthermore, semantic tokens only cover a small portion of total tokens,
   which have to be lexed & generated by the client itself.
 * `clang -Xclang -ast-dump=json`: Clang's AST dump does not include
   preprocessor information (and contains much less information than the C++ API
   provides).
